# 10.03.2021

## quarkus

Found an awesome framework which solves all of my concerns with spring.
It has a really small footprint because it can compile to a native binary using GraalVM.
Native compilation always throws an error at the moment but I'm sure I can fix that in the future.
Never the less the footprint is stillt smaller than with spring.

I finished the migration in like one and a half days.
It actually was realy easy because quarkus supports spring web annotations and spring data jpa and I was
able to just copy and paste my code.
The thing that I was cought up with was dependency injection and propagating my User object through the request.
I could intercept the request with a @Provider class check the token and just define an user object in that class.
Due to the quarkus DI i could just inject that provider class into the controller and i had access to the user object.

Right now everything works just as it worked with spring.

## configuration workslots

I implemeted the config work slot creation and the generation of actaull workslots.
Right now all the basic functuallity for the MVP except deleting and updating is implemented.
The next step would be to integrate the backend controllers with the front end.
For that I already wrote api services in the ui.

## changelog

I implemented a basic changelog in the customer ui with nuxt content.
The changelog can now be written in markdown and it gets automaticaly generated with nuxt generate.

## sharing of components

I should consider sharing some basic components (buttons, cards,...) with my other projects using maybe bit js.